If you're serious about leveling up your Python and data skills, you need to hop onto
this initiative with me.
Every week, Tidy Tuesday is dropping a brand new dataset and it's the perfect way to
practice turning raw data into clean, insightful dashboards.
Trust me, building actual projects is how you get better with Python fast.
This week's dataset is all about Pixar films.
I decided to turn these movie ratings into a full interactive dashboard.
Here's how I built it and how you can follow along.
First up is my tech stack.
I'm using Positron as my IDE because it's designed specifically for data science workflows.
I'm also building the dashboard using Quarto.
It's super beginner-friendly but still powerful enough to create a polished, shareable dashboard.
Then I used Pandas to clean and manipulate the dataset, handling things like merging
tables, calculating averages, and reshaping data for visualizations.
For the visuals, I used Plotly to create the interactive charts.
By doing this, you're not just making pretty charts, you're practicing real-world data
skills like data wrangling, building dynamic visualizations, structuring a project end-to-end,
and you can also learn how to deploy your work so it's portfolio-ready.
Leave any questions in the comments below and follow along for more data science content.
Bye!